##  N-Queens II

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/n-queens-ii/)

The n-queens puzzle is the problem of placing n queens on an n * n chessboard such that no two queens attack each other.

Given an integer n, return the number of distinct solutions to the n-queens puzzle.

### Solution

This question is almost identical to the [N-Queens](../Divide_and_Conquer__Backtrack/05.N-Queens.md) except it only asks the count. Actually when we solve the N-Queens problem, we already use bit mask to check if it is feasible. That was take advantage of col, major diagonal and minor diagonal are all straight lines in a 2-D coordinates. So we can easily check major and minor with their intersections on a line. e.g the first row. 

In this problem, we can still use the above technique and get the count instead of adding a solution to the final list. But this problem only asks for count. We can further simplify it by bitwise operations. In last solution, we have to iterate over columns in each row to find out next candidates. If we can find the next candidates without loop. That would help. How can we do that? We know if we have the possible positions as a binary. To find out the next candidates without loop. We need to locate one of first 1, first 0, last 0 and last 1. Clearly, we have a way to find out the last 1. That is x & (-x). So we need save the available position as 1 and others as 0. But it is hard to record other occupied position as 0.  What we can do is to set 1 with `| (1 << n) `, so we can use ~ operation to flip 0 and 1. But in that case why not just flip them before get next candidates. Hence, we can record occupied position with 1 and available position as 0. That would be easy for column but how about those diagonals? If we use the mask, we can consider only the current row. We still have major diagonal and minor diagonal are straight lines with tangent == 1  or -1. Can we find out what is occupied in the diagonal if we know what is occupied in the previous row? Yes, we can. Because the major diagonal is with tangent = 1, the occupied columns in the next row due to the major diagonal would every thing shift right by 1. Similarly, for the minor, it would be every thing shift by -1. The shift can be achieved by left shift and right shift operations. Of course, we would only consider those still in the grid. This can be done by AND operations with n consecutive 1's mask.

```java
    public int totalNQueens(int n) {
        // (1 << n) - 1 is the mask of all availble columns
        return solve(0,0,0,0, (1 << n) - 1);
    }
    
    private int solve(int row, int col, int major, int minor, final int mask) {
        // because # of row == # of column, This tells we reach the last row
        if (row == mask) {
            return 1;
        }
        // (col|major|minor) is the bit flags for all the occupied columns
        // We flip them for the ease to get the position of original 0's
        // we only care about the column in the grid. We `mask &` operation would remove the extra
        int pos = mask & (~(col|major|minor));
        int res = 0;
        //the mask of next row. This is only for termination purpose as we go over by rows
        //every row would not be occupied before
        int nextRow = (row << 1) | 1;
        while (pos > 0) {
            //get the last 1 bit
            int p = pos & (-pos);
            //remove the last 1 bit from availabe set
            pos ^= p;
            // put the queen and map them to the next row
            res += solve(nextRow, col | p, (major | p) >> 1, (minor | p) << 1, mask);
        }
        return res;
    }
```

Time complexity: The first row would be n possibilities. The next would n -1 ... etc. O(n!)

Space complexity: The max depth is n O(n)



Note, you can still solve the N-Queen problem with this approach but to convert p to the ...Q... would require iterate over the number to get the index or position. While the other problem would only loop 0 ~ n -1 once in each recursion. A pre-computed or lazy computed map might help in this case, it would map the position of 1 to index.