## Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock II

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/)

You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.

Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete as many transactions as you like (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock multiple times).

**Note:** You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).

### Solution

Because there is no limits on how many transactions and there is no penalty/cost on transactions. The problem becomes easy. Any transactions bring positive values should be considered. Also if the stock prices are mono-increased. the profit of buying at the first day and selling at the last day is equals to buying at the first day and selling previous stock and buying again except the last day is the same. But if there is one day in the middle has a lower price than the previous day. The strategy of only make a transaction when the prices is raised from previous day would perform better. With above, the entire transactions can be viewed in several segments. We would ignore those downward segment and in other each segment, the greedy strategy perform no worse than others. So the greedy strategy can get the global optimization.

```java
    public int maxProfit(int[] prices) {
        int res = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i < prices.length; ++i) {
            if (prices[i-1] < prices[i]) {
                //only buy stock at i-1 th day and sell at i th day
                // when prices[i] > prices[i-1] 
                res += prices[i] - prices[i-1];
            }
        }
        return res;        
    }
```

Time complexity: O(n)

Space complexity: O(1)

Note: 

This problem is part of the "Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock" problems. Although this question is easy but some of them are very challenging. By imposing requirement such at only as k transactions being allowed and a transaction fee being charged at each selling day. The greedy strategy loses its magic. One of the solutions is based on dynamic programming. That would be talked in detailed later. 