## Minimum Difference Between Largest and Smallest Value in Three Moves

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-difference-between-largest-and-smallest-value-in-three-moves/)

Given an array nums, you are allowed to choose one element of nums and change it by any value in one move.

Return the minimum difference between the largest and smallest value of nums after perfoming at most 3 moves.

### Solution

It is obvious that the difference would be 0 if you have four or fewer elements. That is because you can change at most three elements and they can be changed to any value. So if there is four or fewer, they can be changed to the same value.

How about we have more than four elements? The question is asking for the difference between the largest and smallest value within at most three changes/steps. What element would you change? Each change would be either decrease the maximum or increase the minimum in each round and we have three rounds.
So it would lead to the following cases:
1. decrease the top 3 elements -> the 4th highest element would be the largest and the lowest element is the smallest
2. increase the bottom 3 elements -> the highest element would be the largest and the 4th lowest element is the smallest
3. increase the bottom 2 elements and decrease the top 1 element -> the 2nd highest element would be the largest and the 3rd lowest element would be the smallest 
4. increase the bottom 1 element and decrease the top 2 elements -> the 3rd highest element would be hte largest and the 2nd lowest element would be the smallest

We only have the above 4 cases and we can try them all. To find those top 4 and bottom 4 elements, we can sort the whole array.

```java
     public int minDifference(int[] nums) {
        if (nums.length < 5) {
            return 0;
        }
        
        int res = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        // write the four combination in a loop, you can also write them one by one
        // final int N = nums.length;
        // Math.min(Math.min(nums[N - 4] - nums[0], nums[N - 3] - nums[1]), Math.min(nums[N-2] - nums[2], nums[N-1] - nums[3]));
        for (int i = 0; i < 4; ++i) {
            res = Math.min(res, nums[nums.length + i - 4] - nums[i]);
        }
        return res;
    }
```

Time complexity:  Sort -> O(nlogn);

Space Complexity: O(1)