## Search a 2D Matrix

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-a-2d-matrix/)

Write an efficient algorithm that searches for a value in an `m x n` matrix. This matrix has the following properties:

- Integers in each row are sorted from left to right.
- The first integer of each row is greater than the last integer of the previous row.

### Solution

After satisfying the requirement, we have each row is sorted and each column is also sorted. That is because any element in the one row is at least the value of the first element in the row. And the first element in the row is greater than the last integer of the previous row. So every element in a row is greater than the last integer of the previous row. And the every element in the previous row is at most the value of the last integer. So for every adjacent row, each column is sorted at those element elements and overall the column is sorted because this is true for all adjacent rows. With this conclusion, we know the first column and the last column are sorted. 

Back to this question, we can find the element via two searches, first search would locate the row and second search would locate the column. Since the first column is sorted, we can perform binary search to find the row  and then because every row is also sorted, we can perform a binary search to find the column.  For row searching, we need to combine the last column to see if the element in that row, and we know it is also sorted. Of course there are some corner cases, if the upper left corner (0,0) is larger than the target, we won't find the target in the matrix because that is the smallest element. Similarly, if the lower right corner(n-1,m-1) is smaller than the target, we won't find the target neither because the value is the largest value.

```java
    public boolean searchMatrix(int[][] matrix, int target) {
        int row = 0;
        final int N = matrix.length;
        final int M = matrix[0].length;
        // check if target within values in the matrix
        if (matrix[0][0] > target || matrix[N-1][M-1] < target) {
            return false;
        }
        
        if (matrix[0][0] <= target && matrix[0][M-1] >= target) {
            row = 0;
        } else if (matrix[N-1][0] <= target && matrix[N-1][M-1] >= target) {
            row = N - 1;
        } else {
            //binary search for the row
            int lo = 0;
            int hi = N - 1;
            while (lo <= hi) {
                int mid = lo + (hi - lo)/2;
                if (matrix[mid][0] <= target && matrix[mid][M-1] >= target) {
                    row = mid;
                    break;
                } else if (matrix[mid][0] > target) {
                    hi = mid - 1;
                } else {
                    lo = mid + 1;
                }
            }
            if (row == 0) {
                return false;
            }
        }
        //binary search within the row
        int lo = 0;
        int hi = M - 1;
        while (lo <= hi) {
            int mid = lo + (hi - lo)/2;
            if (matrix[row][mid] > target) {
                hi = mid - 1;
            } else if (matrix[row][mid] < target) {
                lo = mid + 1;
            } else {
                return true;
            }
        }
        return false;
    }
```

Time complexity: Tow binary search : O(logm + logn)

Space complexity: O(1)

Another solution does not take advantage of binary search, but it works with all rows and all columns are sorted. We would start at the end of the first row. and move according to the comparison result.  Why it is the end of the first row? Because we would like to cover all rows and all columns and make the process repeatable easily. So the intersections of  first row, the first column, the last row and the last column are our candidates. Among those four points, the upper left corner and the lower right corner are largest and smallest value. Any move from them would result to a smaller value. So we would start either the upper right corner or the lower left corner. In this case, I select the upper right corner. Because every column is sorted. If the target is less than the current cell, we would only move to the left. Otherwise, the value in the next row is greater. Similarly if the target is greater than the current cell, we would go to the next row. But for the first case how about go to right of the row. If we follow the process, it would not be necessary to check that element. That is because we come from the previous row and the right element in previous row is larger than this value. So the right value in the current row is larger than current value.

```java
    public boolean searchMatrix(int[][] matrix, int target) {
        final int N = matrix.length;
        final int M = matrix[0].length;
        int r = 0;
        int c = M - 1;
        
        while (r < N && c >= 0) {
            if (matrix[r][c] > target) {
                //need to decrease the value move left
                c--;
            }  else if (matrix[r][c] < target) {
                //need to increase the value move down
                r++;
            } else {
                return true;
            }
        }
        return false;
    }
```

Time complexity: O(m + n)

Space complexity: O(1)