## Stack

### Valid Parentheses

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses/)

A string only contains '(', ')', '[', ']', '{' and '}'. Check if the string is a valid parentheses.

#### Analysis

For valid parentheses, any ')', ']' and '}' must be after '(',  '['' and '{' correspondingly and they should not be paired with other closed marks. If there is only one kind of parentheses. This question can be resolved by counter. But for this question, not only need we know the if there is an open mark but also to know which kind of open mark. Because we only care if the last unpaired open mark matches the current closed mark, this fits the stack structure. counters do not work because we cannot tell which open marks should be used to match when you have three counters for each e.g. [{(}]). As we only need to check open marks, the stack can be used to store open marks. Each time, an open mark would be popped from the stack and if they are matched, continue to check. Otherwise, it is not valid. In the end, we would check if the stack has matched mark left. If there is left, return false. Otherwise, return true. 

```java
    public boolean isValid(String s) {
        if (s.length()%2 > 0) {
            return false;
        }
        Deque<Character> stack = new ArrayDeque<>();
        for (char ch : s.toCharArray()) {
            if (ch == '(' || ch == '[' || ch == '{') {
                stack.push(ch);
            } else if (stack.isEmpty() || target(ch) != stack.pop()) {
                return false;
            }
        }
        return stack.isEmpty();
    }
    
    private char target(char ch) {
        if (ch == ')') {
            return '(';
        }
        if (ch == ']') {
            return '[';
        }
        return '{';
    }
```

Time complexity: Stack push pop operations are O(1) in a loop ->O(n)

Space complexity: The stack and char array -> O(n)

### Min Stack

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-stack/)

Design a stack that supports push, pop, top and retrieving the minimum element in constant time.

Implement the `MinStack` class:

- `MinStack()` initializes the stack object.
- `void push(val)` pushes the element `val` onto the stack.
- `void pop()` removes the element on the top of the stack.
- `int top()` gets the top element of the stack.
- `int getMin()` retrieves the minimum element in the stack.

#### Analysis

For push, pop and top, they are just normal operations for stack. The MinStack can just act as a proxy. For getMin(). That is tricky. It is not hard to maintain minimum of all the data. But how about the minimum pops out? Which one should be the minimum. The get the minimum of the left data. It would be O(n). So we need a data structure to store minimums before new minimum come up and keep them. This also fits for a stack. The stack would keep the minimum as its top and push a new minimum when a smaller or equal to element that the current minimum is pushed. In this way, we would know which one should be next minimum when the current minimum is popped out. There is no need to store other elements because they would never become a new minimum. And the equal must be considered because the min stack should pop out the element when the minimum is popped out in the normal stack. But if there are two or more minimums has been added, it is required to note how many lefts. Instead of counting them, it is better to add an equal element to the mini stack.

```java
class MinStack {
    private Deque<Integer> stack;
    private Deque<Integer> min;

    /** initialize your data structure here. */
    public MinStack() {
        stack = new ArrayDeque<>();
        min = new ArrayDeque<>();
    }
    
    public void push(int val) {
        stack.push(val);
        if (min.isEmpty() || min.peek() >= val) {
            min.push(val);
        } 
    }
    
    public void pop() {
        Integer p = stack.pop();
        if (p.equals(min.peek())) {
            min.pop();
        }
    }
    
    public int top() {
        return stack.peek();
    }
    
    public int getMin() {
        return min.peek();
    }
}
```

Time complexity: all operations are O(1)

Space complexity: Two stacks -> O(n)
