## Deque

### Sliding Window Maximum

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/sliding-window-maximum/)

For a integer array, there is a sliding window of size k moving from left to right. Only k numbers in the window each time. Return the max of the sliding windows in an array.

#### Analysis

The question is asking all the max seen during window sliding from left to right. Hence there is n - k + 1 elements in the result, where n is the number of elements in the array. A Brute Force solution would iterate over all the elements in a window and find out the max. It is easy to find out there are many duplicated works. For example if ith element  is the "peak" in the range (i - k , i + k). The result is always the ith element in the range. It would be easy to find out if there is a larger element than previous max is added in the window. The previous max would not be the max in the future because it would exit from the window earlier than the later element. But can we only keep the max element? This is similar to in the [Min Stack](..\01.Stack.md). When the max removed from the window. The next max has not to be the newly added element e.g. with k= 2 there is a window [3,2] and the next element is 1. 2 should be the max instead of 1.So we need to keep 2. But if anything greater than 2 is added, 2 should be removed. This the same as the max analysis. 2 would not be the max any more because it exits earlier than the newly added larger element. That's it. We need to maintain a non-increasing array. Any elements less than the newly added element should be removed. This can be implemented by a Stack. However, we need to remove element when the window slides out of its index. That part is a Queue because it requires FIFO. Because we need both Stack and Queue, a Deque should work. 


```java
    public int[] maxSlidingWindow(int[] nums, int k) {
        int[] res = new int[nums.length - k + 1];
        int idx = 0;
        Deque<Integer> deque = new ArrayDeque<>(k);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
            //only when i>=k we need to check if the max slides out and record the max element in previous sliding windo
            if (i >= k) {
                res[idx++] = deque.getFirst();
                if (nums[i - k] == deque.getFirst()) {
                    deque.removeFirst();
                }
            }                 
           // maintain non-increasing array
            while (!deque.isEmpty() && deque.getLast().intValue() < nums[i]) {
              deque.removeLast();
            }
            // add the element regard less if it is the max because it may become the max after window sliding.
            deque.addLast(nums[i]);
        }
        //record the last max
        res[idx] = deque.getFirst();
        return res;
    }
```

Time complexity: for-loop O(n). the removeLast is at most O(n) in total because we only have n elements ->O(n)

Space complexity: O(k)

### Some thoughts

One may ask whether an array works. It would work. But when the max element out of the window. It requires shift the rest of element by 1. That would be O(k). However, deque would be O(1). You might maintain a array with the same length of the input array and record the max elements in each slot and moving the head every time when window slide. This would give O(1) look up but it requires O(n) extra space while space for Deque is O(k). Can array resolve this question efficiently? The answer is yes. The array deque is one of the answer. We can talk next.

Deque from util package is under collection framework. It box and unbox between prime integer and Object integer. That add some cost. A customized array deque would help but implementing it should be a standalone problem. Let us talk it next.

### Design Circular Deque

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-circular-deque/)

Design circular double-ended queue(deque)

Implement the `MyCircularDeque` class:

- `MyCircularDeque(int k)` Initializes the deque with a maximum size of `k`.
- `boolean insertFront()` Adds an item at the front of Deque. Returns `true` if the operation is successful, or `false` otherwise.
- `boolean insertLast()` Adds an item at the rear of Deque. Returns `true` if the operation is successful, or `false` otherwise.
- `boolean deleteFront()` Deletes an item from the front of Deque. Returns `true` if the operation is successful, or `false` otherwise.
- `boolean deleteLast()` Deletes an item from the rear of Deque. Returns `true` if the operation is successful, or `false` otherwise.
- `int getFront()` Returns the front item from the Deque. Returns `-1` if the deque is empty.
- `int getRear()` Returns the last item from Deque. Returns `-1` if the deque is empty.
- `boolean isEmpty()` Returns `true` if the deque is empty, or `false` otherwise.
- `boolean isFull()` Returns `true` if the deque is full, or `false` otherwise.

### Analysis

This question is an open question for Circular Deque. One of implementation in Java Core Library is ArrayDeque. This is question is simplified version because the capacity is fixed after initialization but it illustrates the main idea of a circular deque.  From the name, we know the data structure would have something like a cycle. All the elements are store in the cycle. The cycle data structure would make it possible to insertFront, insertLast, deleteFront and deleteLast with O(1) time-cost. That would take advantage of the pointers in the front and in the back. Insert would move the front or back pointer to the proper position and insert value. Delete would move the pointers to proper position to make it seems to be deleted as one would not get the element. For a cycle (in graph), one might start to think some type like ListNode, which pointing to a previous node and a next node. However, it does not add any value compare to pure ListNode.  a head and a tail of ListNode, current number of nodes and a limit on total number of nodes can already implement all the requirements of the Deque without a cycle. One of the solution is based on array. How an array represents a cycle? Instead of make the array cycle, we can make the pointer circulate around the length of array. That is the mod of the array length. When the index equal to the length or -1. They would be wrapped up to 0 and the length - 1 correspondingly to make it as a cycle. What is the size of the array? Would k works? (k is the capacity of the circular deque). For storing all the data. it works. But with k elements, one cannot tell the difference between empty and full because the index is between 0 and length - 1 after mode and startIdx == endIdx can be both empty and full. So we need some other information.  One may think about an indicator such as boolean isFull. That works but this would make the implementation very complicated. A mistake in check or failed to reset it would make a bug. One easy solution is to make the array k + 1. With this additional entry. We know can tell the difference between empty and full. If the startIdx == endIdx, that is empty. If the startIdx - 1 == end (in circular index), that is full. Note in that case, the last item is stored in pos endIdx - 1 (circular index) instead of endIdx.

```java
class MyCircularDeque {
    private int[]  arr;
    private int start;
    private int end;

    /** Initialize your data structure here. Set the size of the deque to be k. */
    public MyCircularDeque(int k) {
        arr = new int[k + 1];
        start = 0;
        end = 0;
    }
    
    /** Adds an item at the front of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful. */
    public boolean insertFront(int value) {
       if (isFull()){
            return false;
        }
        
        start = getId(start-1);
        arr[start] = value;
        return true;
    }
    
    /** Adds an item at the rear of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful. */
    public boolean insertLast(int value) {
        if (isFull()){
            return false;
        }
        //note the last item is endIdx -1
        //so assign first and then add 1.
        arr[end] = value;
        end = getId(end+1);
        return true;
    }
    
    /** Deletes an item from the front of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful. */
    public boolean deleteFront() {
        if(isEmpty()) {
            return false;
        }
        start = getId(start+1);
        return true;
    }
    
    /** Deletes an item from the rear of Deque. Return true if the operation is successful. */
    public boolean deleteLast() {
        if(isEmpty()) {
            return false;
        }
        end = getId(end-1);
        return true;
    }
    
    /** Get the front item from the deque. */
    public int getFront() {
        return isEmpty() ? -1 : arr[start];
    }
    
    /** Get the last item from the deque. */
    public int getRear() {
        return isEmpty() ? -1 : arr[getId(end-1)];
    }
    
    /** Checks whether the circular deque is empty or not. */
    public boolean isEmpty() {
        return start == end;
    }
    
    /** Checks whether the circular deque is full or not. */
    public boolean isFull() {
        return getId(end + 1) == start;
    }
    // map id to circular id
    private int getId(int cur) {
        int id = cur % arr.length;
        //java mode can be negative. make it always positive
        return id < 0 ? id + arr.length : id;
    }
}

```

Time complexity: All the operations supported are O(1)

Space complexity: the underlying array -> O(k)

