## Minimum Cost to Hire K Workers

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-to-hire-k-workers/)

There are n workers. You are given two integer arrays quality and wage where quality[i] is the quality of the ith worker and wage[i] is the minimum wage expectation for the ith worker.

We want to hire exactly k workers to form a paid group. To hire a group of k workers, we must pay them according to the following rules:

Every worker in the paid group should be paid in the ratio of their quality compared to other workers in the paid group.
Every worker in the paid group must be paid at least their minimum wage expectation.
Given the integer k, return the least amount of money needed to form a paid group satisfying the above conditions. Answers within 10-5 of the actual answer will be accepted.

 

Example 1:

Input: quality = [10,20,5], wage = [70,50,30], k = 2
Output: 105.00000
Explanation: We pay 70 to 0th worker and 35 to 2nd worker.
Example 2:

Input: quality = [3,1,10,10,1], wage = [4,8,2,2,7], k = 3
Output: 30.66667
Explanation: We pay 4 to 0th worker, 13.33333 to 2nd and 3rd workers separately.
 

Constraints:

n == quality.length == wage.length
1 <= k <= n <= 104
1 <= quality[i], wage[i] <= 104

### Solution
#### Sort + PQ

The question tells the minimum cost to hire workers depends on the max (wage/quality) ratio from the workers selected. The max ratio would determine how all the workers are paid.
In this case, we can sort the worker by their wage-to-quality ratio or unit wage. Once the ratio is determined. Who is paid most? The one offers most quality would get most wages.
To lower the cost, we need to minimize the total quality. That where Priority Queue helps.

First, the workers are sorted by the unit wage. And then, first k works are put in the PriorityQueue (set to max heap) of quality. Once adding the new worker, the unit wage is non-decreased but we might find one with low quality. We need to pop out that worker with max quality because the unit wage is increased by introducing the new worker. The total cost is unit wage * total quality. Of course the quality can be calculated as if sliding window. Only the first and last iterm should be considered for a new worker candiate.

```java
    public double mincostToHireWorkers(int[] quality, int[] wage, int k) {
        Candidate[] candidates = new Candidate[quality.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < quality.length; ++i) {
            candidates[i] = new Candidate(wage[i], quality[i]);
        }
        
        Arrays.sort(candidates, (a, b) -> Double.compare(a.ratio, b.ratio));
        
        PriorityQueue<Candidate> pq = new PriorityQueue<>(k, (a,b) -> b.quality - a.quality);
        int qualitySum = 0;
        double res = 0;
        for (Candidate cand : candidates) {
            if (pq.size() < k) {
                pq.add(cand);
                qualitySum += cand.quality;
                if (pq.size() == k) {
                    res = cand.ratio * qualitySum;
                }
                continue;
            }
            
            qualitySum += cand.quality - pq.poll().quality;
            pq.add(cand);
            res = Math.min(res, cand.ratio * qualitySum);
        }
        return res;
    }
    private static class Candidate {
        private final double ratio;
        private final int quality;
        
        public Candidate(int wage, int quality) {
            this.ratio = ((double) wage)/quality;
            this.quality = quality;
        }
    }
```
Time Complexity: Sort -> O(nlogn). pq -> O(nlogk) => O(nlogn);
Space Complexity: PQ => O(k)