## Car Fleet

### Car Fleet
Let first check an easy version

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/car-fleet/)

There are n cars going to the same destination along a one-lane road. The destination is target miles away.

You are given two integer array position and speed, both of length n, where position[i] is the position of the ith car and speed[i] is the speed of the ith car (in miles per hour).

A car can never pass another car ahead of it, but it can catch up to it and drive bumper to bumper at the same speed. The faster car will slow down to match the slower car's speed. The distance between these two cars is ignored (i.e., they are assumed to have the same position).

A car fleet is some non-empty set of cars driving at the same position and same speed. Note that a single car is also a car fleet.

If a car catches up to a car fleet right at the destination point, it will still be considered as one car fleet.

Return the number of car fleets that will arrive at the destination.

#### Solution

Let us focus on the target. Because a car never pass another car ahead of it, we can check when the car reach the target if there is no car ahead. We can have a time array of how long they would take if there is only a single car driving on the road. And let us check the by the reverse order of the position. When a car could reach the target sooner than or the same as the previous car (in term of position), they would form a car fleet. Otherwise, they are in separate car fleets. please note we need check the position by reverse order. A car might be faster than the car in the front of it and with ,says, 3 cars in between. They might not be a car fleet as long as there is one car of the three drives slower than the speed of the car fleet that the heading car belong to. 

```java
    public int carFleet(int target, int[] position, int[] speed) {
        // create an array to combine position and speed for sorting
        int[][] info = new int[speed.length][2];
        for (int i = 0; i < speed.length; ++i) {
            info[i][0] = speed[i];
            info[i][1] = position[i];
        }
        // sort by position
        Arrays.sort(info, (a, b) -> a[1] - b[1]);
        // calculate how long a car would drive to the target if it is the only car on the road.
        double[] times = new double[speed.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < info.length; ++i) {
            times[i] = ((double) (target - info[i][1]))/info[i][0];
        }
        //iterate reversely and there would be new car fleet as long as a gap is found between two adjacent car 
        int res = 1;
        double cur = times[times.length - 1];
        for (int i = times.length - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
            if (times[i] > cur) {
                res++;
                cur = times[i];
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
```

### Car Fleet II

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/car-fleet-ii/)

There are n cars traveling at different speeds in the same direction along a one-lane road. You are given an array cars of length n, where cars[i] = [position<sub>i</sub>, speed<sub>i</sub>] represents:

positioni is the distance between the ith car and the beginning of the road in meters. It is guaranteed that position<sub>i</sub> < position<sub>i+1</sub>.
speedi is the initial speed of the ith car in meters per second.
For simplicity, cars can be considered as points moving along the number line. Two cars collide when they occupy the same position. Once a car collides with another car, they unite and form a single car fleet. The cars in the formed fleet will have the same position and the same speed, which is the initial speed of the slowest car in the fleet.

Return an array answer, where answer[i] is the time, in seconds, at which the ith car collides with the next car, or -1 if the car does not collide with the next car. Answers within 10<sup>-5</sup> of the actual answers are accepted.

#### Solution

This question is a follow up of the previous question. There is no fixed target. The target of a car is its previous car. But the previous car can become a car fleet with its previous car and so on. That means the speed of the previous car is not fixed. It varies by its changes in car fleet. For example, Car A drives 5, Car B drives 4 and Car C drives 3 and position P(A) < P(B) < P(C) and A would collide with B before that B would collide with C . Car A would drives 5 when it not met B. And it drives 4 with B until they met C. Then they would drive at 3. If Car X drives just behind A. It drives at constant speed when it not met A. But A is changing its speed and it is hard for X to calculate the time. please note "For simplicity, cars can be considered as points moving along the number line. Two cars collide when they occupy the same position.". That means if X met A after just A and B collides, it is equvalent for X to catch B. Similarly, if X collides with A after A & B collides with C. This is equivalent to X catches C.

So we need a monotonic stack to solve this question. Once the catch up time between two car A and B is greater than catch up time between B and its previous car, say C. We know that the catch up we calculated is not correct because B and C are collides between A collides with B. In this case, we need to check when A and C collides and if that longer than the catch up time of C and its previous car. Of course, if the speed of B is greater than or equal to A, A would never collides with B so can just remove it from the stack. If there is no car left in the stack, the current car would never catch another car. Otherwise, we can calculate the catch up time for the last car in the stack. Also for the next car, those ingore cars during last check would not affect the catch up time between this car and A. Because during catching up, A drives constantly. It only changes speed after collides.


```java
    public double[] getCollisionTimes(int[][] cars) {
        double[] res = new double[cars.length];
        Deque<Integer> stack = new ArrayDeque<>(cars.length);
        int j = 0;
        for (int i = cars.length - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
            while (!stack.isEmpty()) {
                // check the the current car can collides with previous car and if the previous car has been collides with another car before the current car catches it 
                j = stack.peek();
                if (cars[j][1] >= cars[i][1] || (res[j] > 0 && getTime(cars[j][0], cars[j][1], cars[i][0], cars[i][1]) > res[j])) {
                    stack.pop();
                } else {
                    break;
                }
            }
            
            //check if the current car catches any car
            if (stack.isEmpty()) {
                res[i] = -1;
                
            } else {
                j = stack.peek();
                res[i] = getTime(cars[j][0], cars[j][1], cars[i][0], cars[i][1]);
            }

            // put the current car at the end
            stack.push(i);
        }
        return res;
    }
    
    private double getTime(double pos0, int speed0, int pos1, int speed1) {
        return (pos0 - pos1)/(speed1 - speed0);
    }
```

Time Complexity: At most iterate twice for-loop and the stack pop => O(n)
Space Complexity: stack => O(n)