## New 21 Game

[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/new-21-game/)

Alice plays the following game, loosely based on the card game "21".

Alice starts with 0 points and draws numbers while she has less than k points. During each draw, she gains an integer number of points randomly from the range [1, maxPts], where maxPts is an integer. Each draw is independent and the outcomes have equal probabilities.

Alice stops drawing numbers when she gets k or more points.

Return the probability that Alice has n or fewer points.

Answers within 10<sup>-5</sup> of the actual answer are considered accepted.

### Solution
This question requires think backward.
When the game is stopped. Alice would get total points form k to k - 1 + maxPts. As each draw is independent and the outcomes have equal probablitites. If the the final points is less than or equal to n. We have say given alice obtain x points, the probablities of the point less than or equal to n is 1. Otherwise, it is zero. Then, what is the probabilities given alice get k - 1 points? That is euqal to every possiblities from k to k - 1 + maxPts and devided by maxPts (total number of next choices). And we can continue this process. 
E.g.

n = 21, k = 17, maxPts = 10 

|1   |2   |3   |4   |5   |6   |7   |8   |9   |10  |11  |12  |13  |14  |15  |16  |17  |18  |19  |20  |21  |22  |23  |24  |25  |26  |27|
|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
|X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |X   |1   |1   |1   |1   |1   |0   |0   |0   |0   |0   |0 |

X is undecided.

For 16, The probablities that get n or fewer is (P(17) + P(18) + P(19) + .... + P(27))/10 = 0.5.
Then for 15, it is (P(16) + P(17) + P(18) + .... + P(26))/10 = 0.55. so on and so forth.

It is not hard to find a O(n maxPts) algorithm. Every time to interate over maxPts  items in a recorded array.
However, we can find the difference between (P(17) + P(18) + P(19) + .... + P(27))/10 ad (P(16) + P(17) + P(18) + .... + P(26))/10 is (P(27) - P(16))/10. Instead of iterating the maxPts iterms. We only need the current iterm i and i + maxPts + 1 item to calculate the current probablities in a sliding window way. P(0) would be the answer.

```java
    public double new21Game(int n, int k, int maxPts) {
        if (k == 0 || n >= k - 1 + maxPts) {
            return 1;
        } 
        double[] dp = new double[k+maxPts];
        for (int i = k; i <= n; ++i) {
            dp[i] = 1;
        }
        dp[k-1] = ((double)(n - k + 1))/maxPts;
        
        for (int i = k - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
            dp[i] = dp[i+1] + (dp[i+1] - dp[i+1+maxPts])/maxPts;
        }
        return dp[0];
    }
```

Time complexity: iterate from k + maxPts - 1 to 0 => O(k + maxPts)
Space complexity: O(k + maxPts)